README.md, before:

# CAD Quoting Tool

The CAD Quoting Tool is a desktop workflow for estimating part pricing from
engineering data.  It loads customer CAD (STEP/IGES/STL/DXF), applies quoting
heuristics, and optionally calls a local Qwen vision model to propose override
values for the standard quoting variables.  The Tkinter UI also exposes
override, audit and debugging panels so estimators can review generated quotes
before export.

## Prerequisites

* Python 3.11 or newer
* Windows, macOS or Linux with OpenCascade libraries available (for STEP/IGES)
* Optional: locally downloaded Qwen2.5-VL GGUF weights for LLM-assisted quoting

> **Tip:** The runtime checks for a few third-party Python packages at startup
> (`requests`, `beautifulsoup4`, `lxml`, and the shared `cad-quoter` package).
> Configure `pip` to see your private package index and install the contents of
> `requirements.txt` before launching the UI.

## Setup

1. Create and activate a virtual environment in the repository root:
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate  # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
   ```
2. Install the repository in editable mode so the in-tree `src/cad_quoter`
   package is importable during development. Then install the runtime
   dependencies (make sure your private index hosting `cad-quoter` is available
   via `PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL` or `--extra-index-url`):
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. (Optional) Place Qwen GGUF weights in one of the recognised locations:
   * Set `QWEN_GGUF_PATH` and, for vision models, `QWEN_VL_MMPROJ_PATH`.
   * Or copy the `.gguf` files into `models/` next to `appV5.py`.
   * Legacy installs under `D:\CAD_Quoting_Tool\models` continue to be
     auto-discovered.

### Packaged resources

The default variables sheet, McMaster-Carr catalog export and UI configuration
template now ship with the external `cad_quoter` package. At runtime the
application uses the packaged copies automatically via
`cad_quoter.resources`, but you can still override them by pointing the
relevant environment variables (for example `CATALOG_CSV_PATH`) to your own
files.

## Running the application

Launch the Tkinter UI after activating the virtual environment:

```bash
python appV5.py
```

Useful command-line flags:

* `--print-env` – dump a JSON report of the active configuration and exit.
* `--no-gui` – initialise dependencies without opening the Tkinter window.

## Tests and linting

Automated checks live under `tests/`.  Run the suite with:

```bash
pytest
```

### Documentation

All internal documentation now lives on the company wiki (requires SSO
access).  Use the links below to open the migrated pages:

* [App settings overrides](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+App+Settings+Overrides)
* [AppKit inventory](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+AppKit+Inventory)
* [AppV5 simplification plan](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+AppV5+Simplification+Plan)
* [Consolidation opportunities](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Consolidation+Opportunities)
* [Deployment guide](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Deployment+Guide)
* [Internal workflow reference](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Internal+Workflow+Reference)
* [NRE costs](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+NRE+Costs)
* [Planner pricing migration](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Planner+Pricing+Migration)

## Troubleshooting

* Missing packages: ensure `pip install -r requirements.txt` has been executed.
* Missing LLM weights: set the `QWEN_*` environment variables or drop the
  required `.gguf` files into a `models/` directory.
* DXF enrichment: install `ezdxf` and (optionally) ODA File Converter to enable
  the DXF parsing shortcuts used by the geometry helpers.

## Pass-through cost categories

The quote breakdown includes a "Pass Through" table that exposes supplemental
line items which are transferred directly to the customer.  Each entry is
defined in `appV5.py` alongside its descriptive "basis" label.  For example, the
"Outsourced Vendors" row is backed by the `outsourced_costs` aggregate which
sums any detected heat treat, plating/coating, or passivation values parsed from
the estimating worksheet.  The label shown in the UI ("Basis: Outside processing
vendors") comes from the `pass_meta` dictionary declared near line 7,600 of the
same file.

When a pass-through field is populated in the workbook, the raw monetary value
flows into the corresponding row unchanged.  That is why a small entry such as
`$0.10` on "Outsourced Vendors" reflects the exact total imported from the
source spreadsheet or manual override rather than a derived or marked-up number.

## Geometry metrics expected from CAD/worksheet imports

The quoting pipeline normalises raw CAD features and worksheet entries into a
`geom` dictionary so downstream pricing heuristics can read consistent keys
regardless of the import source.  Populate the following metrics whenever they
are available; missing values fall back to conservative defaults so estimates
still complete, but richer geometry produces noticeably better machining time
predictions.

### Die plates

```python
geom = {
    "wedm": {"perimeter_in": 240.0, "starts": 6, "tabs": 6, "passes": 2, "wire_in": 0.010},
    "sg":   {"area_sq_in": 18.0 * 8.0 * 2, "stock_in": 0.001},           # both faces
    "blanchard": {"area_sq_in": 18.0 * 8.0, "stock_in": 0.004},
    "milling": {"volume_cuin": 12.0},                                   # pocket volume
    "drill": [{"dia_in": 0.375, "depth_in": 1.25}] * 8 +
              [{"dia_in": 0.500, "depth_in": 1.0}] * 4,
    "tapped_count": 8,
    "bores": [
        {"method": "jig_grind", "tol": 0.0003},
        {"method": "jig_bore", "tol": 0.0005},
    ],
    "length_ft_edges": 12.0,
    "lap_area_sq_in": 0.0,
}
```

### Punches

```python
geom = {
    "wedm": {"perimeter_in": 6.5, "starts": 1, "tabs": 2, "passes": 3, "wire_in": 0.008},
    "sg":   {"area_sq_in": 2.0, "stock_in": 0.0008},
    "drill": [],
    "bores": [],
    "sinker": [],  # or [{"vol_cuin": 0.02, "finish": True}]
    "length_ft_edges": 0.5,
    "lap_area_sq_in": 0.15,
}
```

Extending the schema for other part families follows the same pattern: aggregate
volumes, perimeters, pass counts, and any special operations into nested
dictionaries so Codex and pricing estimators can consume a single geometry
payload.

## McMaster-Carr API client (official)

The repository includes `mcmaster_api.py`, a simple CLI that authenticates to
McMaster-Carr’s official API using mutual TLS (client PFX certificate) and
prints price tiers for a given part number.

The quoting helpers under `cad_quoter.vendors.mcmaster_stock` consume the same
API to resolve sheet SKUs and price-per-unit estimates programmatically, so no
legacy web scrapers are required.

Setup:

- Install extra dependencies:
  - `pip install requests-pkcs12 truststore python-dotenv`
- Allow the runtime to import the real `requests` package by setting
  `CAD_QUOTER_ALLOW_REQUESTS=1`.  The repository ships with a stubbed
  `requests` module for tests; the environment variable switches it into a
  passthrough mode so API calls can execute.
- Obtain your McMaster-Carr API credentials and a `.pfx` client certificate.
- Provide credentials via environment variables or a `.env` file in the repo
  root:

```
MCMASTER_USER=your_email@example.com
MCMASTER_PASS=your_password
MCMASTER_PFX_PATH=D:\\path\\to\\client.pfx
MCMASTER_PFX_PASS=optional_pfx_password
```

Run:

```
python mcmaster_api.py
```

You will be prompted for any missing values and for a part number (e.g.,
`4936K451`). The tool logs in, subscribes the product if required, and prints
the returned pricing tiers.

Alternatively, fetch the price tiers for a known part directly from the bundled
catalog helper:

```
python -m cad_quoter.vendors.mcmaster_stock --part 86825K956
```

## Deployment helpers

The legacy `git-auto-pull` scripts have been replaced with a small Python
utility that bundles the common operational workflows.  Invoke the helper with
`python -m deploy <command>` from the repository root.  Key sub-commands
include:

* `pull` – fast-forward the local checkout from the remote.  This replaces the
  old Git auto-pull hooks.
* `bootstrap` – install runtime dependencies from `requirements.txt`.  Pass
  `--upgrade-pip` to refresh `pip` beforehand.
* `check` – run the default pytest suite before promoting a build.
* `print-env` – proxy to `python appV5.py --print-env` for quick configuration
  audits.

Run `python -m deploy --help` for the complete command reference.

The command honours `--qty` to pick the relevant pricing tier and will fall
back to the interactive catalog flow when `--part` is omitted.

Commit message:

Document cad-quoter packaging workflow

README.md, after:

# CAD Quoting Tool

The CAD Quoting Tool is a desktop workflow for estimating part pricing from
engineering data.  It loads customer CAD (STEP/IGES/STL/DXF), applies quoting
heuristics, and optionally calls a local Qwen vision model to propose override
values for the standard quoting variables.  The Tkinter UI also exposes
override, audit and debugging panels so estimators can review generated quotes
before export.

## Prerequisites

* Python 3.11 or newer
* Windows, macOS or Linux with OpenCascade libraries available (for STEP/IGES)
* Optional: locally downloaded Qwen2.5-VL GGUF weights for LLM-assisted quoting

> **Tip:** The runtime checks for a few third-party Python packages at startup
> (`requests`, `beautifulsoup4`, `lxml`, and the shared `cad-quoter` package).
> Configure `pip` to see your private package index and install the contents of
> `requirements.txt` before launching the UI.

## Setup

1. Create and activate a virtual environment in the repository root:
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate  # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
   ```
2. Install the repository in editable mode (including the "dev" extras) so the
   in-tree `src/cad_quoter` package is importable during development and the
   packaging toolchain is available. Then install the runtime dependencies
   (make sure your private index hosting `cad-quoter` is available via
   `PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL` or `--extra-index-url`):
   ```bash
   pip install -e .[dev]
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. (Optional) Place Qwen GGUF weights in one of the recognised locations:
   * Set `QWEN_GGUF_PATH` and, for vision models, `QWEN_VL_MMPROJ_PATH`.
   * Or copy the `.gguf` files into `models/` next to `appV5.py`.
   * Legacy installs under `D:\CAD_Quoting_Tool\models` continue to be
     auto-discovered.

### Packaged resources

The default variables sheet, McMaster-Carr catalog export and UI configuration
template now ship with the external `cad_quoter` package. At runtime the
application uses the packaged copies automatically via
`cad_quoter.resources`, but you can still override them by pointing the
relevant environment variables (for example `CATALOG_CSV_PATH`) to your own
files.

## Running the application

Launch the Tkinter UI after activating the virtual environment:

```bash
python appV5.py
```

Useful command-line flags:

* `--print-env` – dump a JSON report of the active configuration and exit.
* `--no-gui` – initialise dependencies without opening the Tkinter window.

## Tests and linting

Automated checks live under `tests/`.  Run the suite with:

```bash
pytest
```

## Building and publishing the reusable package

The quoting helpers under `src/cad_quoter/` are published as the private
`cad-quoter` distribution. Editable installs (`pip install -e .[dev]`) pull in
the build dependencies so you can cut a release directly from this repository.

1. Remove any previous build artefacts:
   ```bash
   rm -rf build dist src/cad_quoter.egg-info
   ```
2. Create a fresh source distribution and wheel:
   ```bash
   python -m build
   ```
3. Upload the artefacts to your internal package index:
   ```bash
   python -m twine upload --repository cad-internal dist/*
   ```

See `docs/cad-quoter-package.md` for more background on the packaged quoting
helpers and how downstream applications consume them.

### Documentation

All internal documentation now lives on the company wiki (requires SSO
access).  Use the links below to open the migrated pages:

* [App settings overrides](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+App+Settings+Overrides)
* [AppKit inventory](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+AppKit+Inventory)
* [AppV5 simplification plan](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+AppV5+Simplification+Plan)
* [Consolidation opportunities](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Consolidation+Opportunities)
* [Deployment guide](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Deployment+Guide)
* [Internal workflow reference](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Internal+Workflow+Reference)
* [NRE costs](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+NRE+Costs)
* [Planner pricing migration](https://wiki.company.com/display/CAD/CAD+Quoting+Tool+-+Planner+Pricing+Migration)

## Troubleshooting

* Missing packages: ensure `pip install -r requirements.txt` has been executed.
* Missing LLM weights: set the `QWEN_*` environment variables or drop the
  required `.gguf` files into a `models/` directory.
* DXF enrichment: install `ezdxf` and (optionally) ODA File Converter to enable
  the DXF parsing shortcuts used by the geometry helpers.

## Pass-through cost categories

The quote breakdown includes a "Pass Through" table that exposes supplemental
line items which are transferred directly to the customer.  Each entry is
defined in `appV5.py` alongside its descriptive "basis" label.  For example, the
"Outsourced Vendors" row is backed by the `outsourced_costs` aggregate which
sums any detected heat treat, plating/coating, or passivation values parsed from
the estimating worksheet.  The label shown in the UI ("Basis: Outside processing
vendors") comes from the `pass_meta` dictionary declared near line 7,600 of the
same file.

When a pass-through field is populated in the workbook, the raw monetary value
flows into the corresponding row unchanged.  That is why a small entry such as
`$0.10` on "Outsourced Vendors" reflects the exact total imported from the
source spreadsheet or manual override rather than a derived or marked-up number.

## Geometry metrics expected from CAD/worksheet imports

The quoting pipeline normalises raw CAD features and worksheet entries into a
`geom` dictionary so downstream pricing heuristics can read consistent keys
regardless of the import source.  Populate the following metrics whenever they
are available; missing values fall back to conservative defaults so estimates
still complete, but richer geometry produces noticeably better machining time
predictions.

### Die plates

```python
geom = {
    "wedm": {"perimeter_in": 240.0, "starts": 6, "tabs": 6, "passes": 2, "wire_in": 0.010},
    "sg":   {"area_sq_in": 18.0 * 8.0 * 2, "stock_in": 0.001},           # both faces
    "blanchard": {"area_sq_in": 18.0 * 8.0, "stock_in": 0.004},
    "milling": {"volume_cuin": 12.0},                                   # pocket volume
    "drill": [{"dia_in": 0.375, "depth_in": 1.25}] * 8 +
              [{"dia_in": 0.500, "depth_in": 1.0}] * 4,
    "tapped_count": 8,
    "bores": [
        {"method": "jig_grind", "tol": 0.0003},
        {"method": "jig_bore", "tol": 0.0005},
    ],
    "length_ft_edges": 12.0,
    "lap_area_sq_in": 0.0,
}
```

### Punches

```python
geom = {
    "wedm": {"perimeter_in": 6.5, "starts": 1, "tabs": 2, "passes": 3, "wire_in": 0.008},
    "sg":   {"area_sq_in": 2.0, "stock_in": 0.0008},
    "drill": [],
    "bores": [],
    "sinker": [],  # or [{"vol_cuin": 0.02, "finish": True}]
    "length_ft_edges": 0.5,
    "lap_area_sq_in": 0.15,
}
```

Extending the schema for other part families follows the same pattern: aggregate
volumes, perimeters, pass counts, and any special operations into nested
dictionaries so Codex and pricing estimators can consume a single geometry
payload.

## McMaster-Carr API client (official)

The repository includes `mcmaster_api.py`, a simple CLI that authenticates to
McMaster-Carr’s official API using mutual TLS (client PFX certificate) and
prints price tiers for a given part number.

The quoting helpers under `cad_quoter.vendors.mcmaster_stock` consume the same
API to resolve sheet SKUs and price-per-unit estimates programmatically, so no
legacy web scrapers are required.

Setup:

- Install extra dependencies:
  - `pip install requests-pkcs12 truststore python-dotenv`
- Allow the runtime to import the real `requests` package by setting
  `CAD_QUOTER_ALLOW_REQUESTS=1`.  The repository ships with a stubbed
  `requests` module for tests; the environment variable switches it into a
  passthrough mode so API calls can execute.
- Obtain your McMaster-Carr API credentials and a `.pfx` client certificate.
- Provide credentials via environment variables or a `.env` file in the repo
  root:

```
MCMASTER_USER=your_email@example.com
MCMASTER_PASS=your_password
MCMASTER_PFX_PATH=D:\\path\\to\\client.pfx
MCMASTER_PFX_PASS=optional_pfx_password
```

Run:

```
python mcmaster_api.py
```

You will be prompted for any missing values and for a part number (e.g.,
`4936K451`). The tool logs in, subscribes the product if required, and prints
the returned pricing tiers.

Alternatively, fetch the price tiers for a known part directly from the bundled
catalog helper:

```
python -m cad_quoter.vendors.mcmaster_stock --part 86825K956
```

## Deployment helpers

The legacy `git-auto-pull` scripts have been replaced with a small Python
utility that bundles the common operational workflows.  Invoke the helper with
`python -m deploy <command>` from the repository root.  Key sub-commands
include:

* `pull` – fast-forward the local checkout from the remote.  This replaces the
  old Git auto-pull hooks.
* `bootstrap` – install runtime dependencies from `requirements.txt`.  Pass
  `--upgrade-pip` to refresh `pip` beforehand.
* `check` – run the default pytest suite before promoting a build.
* `print-env` – proxy to `python appV5.py --print-env` for quick configuration
  audits.

Run `python -m deploy --help` for the complete command reference.

The command honours `--qty` to pick the relevant pricing tier and will fall
back to the interactive catalog flow when `--part` is omitted.
